**1. Why are you interested in programming? What have you done to expose yourself to programming so far?**  

As a high school teacher I have been hearing more about programming over the last few years and have had a growing interest.  While searching out opportunities to gain exposure, I learned about a 12 hour introductory course offered through a local coding academy.  When the day of the course arrived I was tempted to stay home and relax as the week had been an extremely challenging one teaching and I was depleted of social, emotional, and physical energy.  Despite that, I made it to the class by 8:00 AM and did not leave the building again until 8:00 PM.  I was greatly rewarded for my efforts!  I walked away with the basic structure of a website programmed in HTML and CSS that I had designed with my partner; an extremely fulfilling feeling. I also had more energy and excitement than I had felt all week!  I was eager to learn more, do more, and talk to others about what I had learned.  

I am interested in programming because it is a tool that can be used across industries, it is a fun activity involving problem solving, it allows for creative thinking and solutions, and it is a good fit for my current skill set and talents.  I love that programmers are now needed in all different sectors and can bring improvements to government, education, health, business, world relief efforts, social justice and more.   I have spent the last ten years as a high school educator and have seen an increase in the importance of understanding basic coding.  With an increasing need for programmers in all sectors, I have a desire to learn how to program for personal reasons as well as to help others.  Another reason why I would like to be a programmer is because I love logic puzzles and problem solving.  During college I took my first physics course and found myself excited to do the exercises both individually as well as in groups.  I enjoyed trying to solve the problems, gathering more information, sharing approaches with my classmates, feeling entirely stumped by an ‘unsolvable’ problem only to later have that “aha!” moment in which I discover what I was missing.  More than once I would wake up in the morning realizing the key that allowed me to solve the problem, and was excited to get my homework back out to try the problem again.  From the brief experience that I have had with programming, it seems to include the fun of a similar approach.  The search for the best way to do something, realizing that there are multiple approaches, talking it over with someone to help combine forces and letting the brain continue to work on the task at hand even when the problem or code is not immediately present.  

Another aspect of programming that attracts me is the similarities between coding languages and written languages.  When I first learned Spanish I struggled through understanding the structure and format, but later appreciated and marveled at how simple changes can have completely new meanings.  I also realized that when I devoted the time and energy necessary to learning the basics, I was later rewarded with the ability to communicate in so many ways! A whole new world was opened to me and once I achieved a certain level of fluency the learning became more fun, exciting, and natural.  While computer languages are different, in many ways they share similarities to spoken languages. Patterns and rules are important, and simple changes can have completely different meanings.  In addition, once a strong foundation has been build a whole new world to approaching problems is opened to the programmer.  

To further decide if I am interested in a career in programming I have sought out conversations with those who are in the field as well as learned some basics through the Jump Start curriculum, Code Academy, a few other online intro programs and a book called Adventures in Python.  Throughout all of these conversations and introductory lessons I have become more excited and confident about my choice to become a developer.  

---
**2)  If you are accepted into our program, where do you see your career in 5 years?**

If accepted by ADA I see myself working as a programmer in five years, but I am not certain where I will be working. This is because I do not know enough about the tech industry to know what jobs are available.  While I find tech companies that are passionate about tech to be interesting, I would rather use my love of technology in another sector.  I am interested in how my programming knowledge could be used in sectors such as travel, world relief efforts, government, social justice, health or education. Ideally I see myself either working for a smaller organization or in public service, but I want to remain open to opportunities that I do not yet know exist.  Additionally, I am passionate about education at all levels, as well as equity in education.  I would like to one day go back into education but I do not yet know in what context or when will be the appropriate time to do so.  Some ideas I have for utilizing my programming knowledge in the field of education include working for an education technology company, contributing to educational research, or working as a teacher with a focus in programming.  One of my dreams would be to use my skills as a programmer to help empower and serve those who currently struggle in our educational system.  I would love to use my skills to support the minority groups which struggle in our educational system, students from a lower SES background, and those classified as special education.  I am also interested in working in some capacity with either refugees or homeless youth in the Seattle area.  Regardless of my career, however, I hope to remain connected to the public education system.  

---
**3. After reading Ada's Vision, Mission and Inclusivity Statement, how will you contribute to Ada's vision for an inclusive and diverse community?**

Upon hearing about ADA and researching their program I was most attracted to the program because of their Vision, Mission, Program, and Inclusivity Statement. Regardless of if I am accepted into ADA I hope to carry with me the vision and mission of fostering an inclusive and diverse community into the field of technology.  I especially appreciate that ADA’s core values are about “building and contributing to a supportive community; creating and advocating for inclusivity; and teaching and practicing lifelong learning.”    While learning programming, I hope to build a community among my peers as well as learn from past ADA graduates about ways in which they are promoting ADA’s vision and mission in their current roles.  Once in the field, I hope to mentor those learning or pursuing programming as well as encourage and inspire individuals from underrepresented communities to pursue programming.  One way I would like to do this is remain connected to the field of education and my current community of teachers.  Students often listen to and trust their teachers, and I would like to reach out to more teachers about encouraging students they believe could be successful in the field.  I think it is important to offer more than just opportunities, but to truly encourage, support, and motivate those who are underrepresented in the field.  In addition, I would like to continue to mentor the robotics team at my school which currently has no female programmers.  All of the females that join the team choose electronics, build, or business as areas of focus and I believe that the lack of females in programming is stopping new female members from pursuing programming.  I would like to become a programming mentor so that I can show them a strong female in the field as well as push the females on the team to begin learning programming.  

A few months ago I began the ADA Jump Start curriculum.  The initial lesson on social justice lesson which was more eye opening than I thought it would be. I began to wonder what I could do in my current role to be an advocate rather than an observer. The following week I began to speak with some of my students who would be considered underrepresented in the field of programming. These particular students also displayed the characteristics necessary to be good programmers including strong problem solving skills, grit, determination and desire.  I introduced them to a few “Hour of Code” exercises to see if they enjoyed the process behind coding and gave them some background information about the careers and benefits available through programming.  While not all the students I talked to were interested, some have now joined the “Girls who Code” club at our school and a few others are looking at the robotics team for next year. In addition, some of the graduating seniors are now considering exploring computer science in their future studies.  

My current professional focus is on high school level students, however, I am also interested in helping encourage and mentor those who study programming later in life – particularly those from underrepresented populations. 

---
**4. Tell us about a time you made a mistake that you learned a lot from. If you encountered the situation again, what would you do differently?**  

As a teacher I have often told my students that it is not only okay to make mistakes, fall down, mess up and ‘fail’, but these are the best ways to learn! Reflection upon these moments allows mistakes to become valuable learning opportunities, and one only fails when they do not reflect and learn from these experiences. Throughout my life I have learned the value of reflecting on both mistakes and achievements.  I find it helpful to frequently reflect on my circumstances and choices as I continually seek to improve. This ranges from the smaller life lessons to the larger decisions as I embark on a new stage of life.  

One smaller mistake that I recently made on the job was while teaching a chemistry lab soon after the winter vacation.  I went through a basic lab introduction and released the students to their stations to perform the lab.  The class went less than desirably with students behaving inappropriately in their words and actions, guessing how to perform the lab instead of reading the instructions, not working well with their peers, etc.  Luckily I had a break before the next class and time to reflect upon what could be improved.  When the next class came in, I took a few extra minutes to review expectations for lab behavior as well as positive and negative consequences for behaviors and attitudes.  I was also more attentive to some of the areas of struggle for the students in the lab and was able to review some directions in detail beforehand. While the second class is normally more challenging, that particular day their class went much smoother. I also took the time the following day to lead the first class through a reflection on our observations from the lab and a discussion of what could be done better next time.  I regularly reflect on the outcome of labs, assignments and tests in the classroom.   I seek to understand what variables affected the outcome and what I could improve in the future. I believe that this requires reflecting and learning from mistakes as well as moments of success.   

On a larger scale, I made a mistake when I first became a teacher.  Alone in my classroom, I attempted to learn and do everything on my own.  I placed my identity and sense of self in my profession and feared judgement from others.  I had a strong desire to prove my capability, and was somewhat arrogant about my abilities. This perspective, combined with the often isolating nature of teaching, caused me to attempt to enter my teaching career without seeking help, guidance or collaboration. My first several months were extremely difficult and exhausting, though I pushed through it headstrong and determined. Over time, I began to make friends and found two mentors within my community.  I learned so much from them as we discussed lessons and skills required in the classroom. I was able to observe in their classrooms, invited them into my classroom, and asked their advice about being an effective teacher.  I then began to seek out professional development opportunities in the area and found the value in learning about new ideas as well as building a network of colleagues. I engaged in discussions about learning practices, was willing to try somewhat terrifying new ideas, and grew profoundly as a teacher. Sometimes trying these new things was messy and led to chaotic results the first time. I learned that with proper precautions in place it was often worth the risk of trying something new that had the potential to have great benefits.  As I plan to enter the world of computer programming, I want to learn from the mistakes I made when I was a new teacher.  I will enter humbly with a desire to listen and learn from those around me.  I have already learned that there are communities of programmers in the area and I look forward to learning from and collaborating with them.  This time I want to seek out colleagues and mentors earlier and use their expertise and knowledge to guide me.  I will also look for extra learning opportunities and be willing to try new things and make mistakes along the way. I hope to seek improvement without fearing judgement by not identifying myself with my ability to code as I once did with teaching. I am excited about entering the field of programming while carrying with me all the lessons I have learned from the past.  





